# water-pumps
A device that can raise the water and transmit it to increase the pressure of the flow of water through the outlet is known as water pump. A water pump does not mean that it will only use water; it can use fluid of any type and can be used across myriad of places like industries, water supply, agriculture, chemical, petrol, fire stations and more.   Considering the type of fluid used, the rate of flow and the different functions, water pumps can be certainly of different types. Also, based on its principal of mechanism, it can be categorised into magnetic, spiral, sliding, axial, steam, wheel and so on. Based on type of fluids used, these water pumps can be categorised into oil transfer pump, water pump, dredge pump and so on. Again, based on impeller connection, a pump can be categorised as a single stage one or a multi stage one.  Because the diversity of pump is so wide, one needs to be very sure on which one to purchase. Every requirement will need a different pump. A thorough study on each pump and its mechanism will help on buying decision. Here are some more tips:  Exactly check out on why you need a pump. Like I said, there is a huge diversity of water pump, so it’s better to chalk out your requirement first and zero in on which one to purchase.  Check out the best water pump manufacturer in the line. It’s better to talk with some old customers ad take the review from them. It is wiser to buy a pump from them who are certified by Agricultural Machinery Department. Do not ever buy a product that does not have a manufacturer name and certificate.  Decide on the required pump lift. A Pump lift refers to the required pump increase and not the height of liquid till which it can be raised. The pump lift is 1.15 to 1.20 times the height of water lift. While selecting your pump, ensure that the mentioned pump lift is close to your required pump lift and dose not deviate more or less than 20%.   Consider on water flow rate while selecting your pump. For example, if you are purchasing on for your home, then your flow rate can be low. More the flow rate increases, more the rate of the pump increases as well. It’s a total waste on money to buy an expensive water pump for household where rate of flow can be kept low.   Last but not the least, plan out your pump installation area! Many a times, people rush off to buy a pump without planning out and working out on installation area. In such cases, you can go nuts in between the process of installation.   CRI groups are leading water pump manufacturer across the globe. If you plan to purchase one from this Brand, you can rest assured that all your requirements related to water pump are met with 100% satisfaction. Given that CRI groups envisages in meeting a 100% satisfaction guarantee, you can count on them while investing on them!
